# How to manage web content items by using REST

You can use the Web Content Manager REST Service to create, read, update, and delete the following item types.

-   **[How to use REST with libraries](../wcm/wcm_rest_crud_libraries.md)**  
You can use the Web Content Manager REST service to create, read, update, query locale information, and delete libraries.
-   **[How to use REST with content items](../wcm/wcm_rest_crud_content.md)**  
You can use the HCL Web Content Manager REST service to create, read, update, and delete content items.
-   **[How to use REST with components](../wcm/wcm_rest_crud_component.md)**  
You can use the Web Content Manager REST service to create, read, update, and delete some types of components.
-   **[How to use REST with elements before version 8.5 CF03](../wcm/wcm_rest_crud_element.md)**  
You can use the Web Content Manager REST service to create, read, update, and delete some types of elements that are stored in site areas and content items. All element types are supported.
-   **[How to use REST with elements with version 8.5 CF03 or higher](../wcm/wcm_rest_crud_element_cf03.md)**  
You can use the Web Content Manager REST service to create, read, update, and delete elements.
-   **[How to use REST with authoring templates](../wcm/wcm_rest_crud_templates.md)**  
You can use the Web Content Manager REST service to create, read, update, and delete content templates and site area templates. You can also set default values for items that are created by using these authoring templates.
-   **[How to REST with presentation templates](../wcm/wcm_rest_crud_presentation.md)**  
You can use the Web Content Manager REST service to create, read, update, and delete presentation templates.
-   **[How to use REST with site areas](../wcm/wcm_rest_crud_sitearea.md)**  
You can use the Web Content Manager REST service to create, read, update, and delete site areas.
-   **[How to use REST with managed pages](../wcm/wcm_rest_crud_pages.md)**  
You can use the Web Content Manager REST service to read managed pages.
-   **[How to use REST with drafts and workflows](../wcm/wcm_rest_crud_workflow.md)**  
You can use the REST services for HCL Web Content Manager to create drafts, approve items in a workflow, retrieve workflow comments from content items, and move items through different stages of a workflow.
-   **[How to use REST with workflow items](../wcm/wcm_rest_crud_workflow_items.md)**  
You can use the Web Content Manager REST service to create, read, update, and delete workflow items.
-   **[How to use REST with workflow stages](../wcm/wcm_rest_crud_workflow_stages.md)**  
You can use the Web Content Manager REST service to create, read, update, and delete workflow stages.
-   **[How to use REST with workflow actions](../wcm/wcm_rest_crud_workflow_actions.md)**  
You can use the Web Content Manager REST service to create, read, update, and delete all workflow action types.
-   **[How to use REST with projects](../wcm/wcm_rest_crud_projects.md)**  
You can use the REST services for Web Content Manager to create and work with projects.
-   **[How to use REST with folders](../wcm/wcm_rest_crud_folders.md)**  
You can use the Web Content Manager REST service to create, read, update, and delete folders. You can also use the Web Content Manager REST service to query for the preset folders in a library.
-   **[How to use REST with taxonomies](../wcm/wcm_rest_crud_taxonomy.md)**  
You can use the Web Content Manager REST service to create, read, update, and delete taxonomies.
-   **[How to use REST with categories](../wcm/wcm_rest_crud_catagory.md)**  
You can use the Web Content Manager REST service to create, read, update, and delete categories.
-   **[How to use REST to work with item identity controls](../wcm/wcm_rest_crud_id.md)**  
The way identity controls are used with REST depend on whether a text provider is enabled or not for an item.
-   **[How to use REST with access controls](../wcm/wcm_rest_crud_access.md)**  
The access control section in an Atom entry or JSON entry that is generated by the REST service for Web Content Manager links to resources from the Portal Access Control REST API.
-   **[How to use REST to work with author and owner parameters](../wcm/wcm_rest_crud_authors.md)**  
Information for the author and owner of an item can be specified by using the REST service.
-   **[How to use REST with versions](../wcm/wcm_rest_crud_versions.md)**  
Item versions can be listed and read by using the REST service.
-   **[Using REST to work with recent items](../wcm/wcm_rest_crud_recent_items.md)**  
You can use REST service to display a list of recently accessed items. This is the equivalent of the Recent Items view in the library explorer.
-   **[How to use REST to work with favorite items](../wcm/wcm_rest_crud_favorites.md)**  
You can use REST service to display a list of favorite items. This function is the equivalent of the Favorite Items view in the library explorer.
-   **[REST: Attachments](../wcm/wcm_rest_attach_images.md)**  
You can use the REST service to attach images to some item types. This is equivalent to using the Insert An Image icon in the authoring portlet.
-   **[Generic reading by using REST services for Web Content Manager](../wcm/wcm_rest_crud_read.md)**  
Although not all item types are handled by the REST service, all item types can be read in a generic fashion by using the REST service.


