# Elements 

Create a website by, building templates, and specifying other key components of the system. When these items are in place, you can begin adding elements to your templates and use them to create content items.

-   **[Links and navigation ](../wcm/wcm_dev_elements_types_links.md)**  
You use these elements to define or generate links between different pages in a website, or add navigational elements to a website.
-   **[How to use a search element ](../panel_help/wcm_dev_search_form.md)**  
A search element is used to display the results of a search query. A search element cannot be used in isolation, but must be used together with an HTML element that is used to define the search query form.
-   **[How to store text and HTML ](../wcm/wcm_dev_elements_types_text.md)**  
You use different types of elements to store text or HTML depending on the type of text or HTML being created.
-   **[How to store files and images ](../wcm/wcm_dev_elements_types_files.md)**  
You use these elements to store files or images.
-   **[Selection elements ](../wcm/wcm_dev_elements_types_selection.md)**  
You use these elements to make selections from existing elements and data.
-   **[Personalized content ](../wcm/wcm_dev_elements_types_personalize.md)**  
You use these elements to create or reference personalized content.
-   **[Page navigation element ](../wcm/wcm_dev_elements_page-navigation.md)**  
A page navigation element provides navigation controls that are used to browse through a set of results that are generated by menus, navigators, personalization, and search elements.
-   **[URL generation by using PathCmpnt and URLCmpnt tags ](../wcm/wcm_config_wcmviewer_urlgen.md)**  
There are some special considerations to keep in mind when you use URLCmpnt and PathCmpnt tags to create URLs to other web content items from within your content.
-   **[Personalizing federated documents ](../wcm/wcm_dev_feddocs.md)**  
Portal Personalization provides the federated documents feature to retrieve metadata about documents that are stored in external content management systems or document repositories. Examples of these systems include HCL Content Manager, IBM FileNet Content Manager, and Microsoft Sharepoint. You can use a personalization component in HCL Web Content Manager to display metadata from federated documents and to create links to download or open the documents.

**Parent topic:**[Building the website ](../site/site_build_parent.md)

**Related information**  


[How to work with elements](../panel_help/wcm_dev_elements.md)

[Element designs ](../panel_help/wcm_dev_elements_design.md)

