# do Action rule element 

Use the Do action, Otherwise do action, Always do action, and Exclude do action elements.

Within a binding, you can couple actions with profilers so certain tasks are performed when certain conditions are met. You can also indicate actions to be done under other conditions. **Do action** allows you to choose one or more actions in your project. You can also select another profiler and profile to define a combination of conditions to evaluate. These actions run when the condition in the preceding profile \(or set of profiles\) are met.

**Note:** If there are multiple actions in a binding, they must all work with resources of the same type.

**Otherwise do action** allows you to choose one or more actions that run when none of the preceding conditions in the profile \(or set of profiles\) are met. Within the otherwise clause, you can also select another profiler and profile to define a combination of conditions to evaluate.

**Always do action** allows you to choose one or more actions in your project that will execute whether or not any of the preceding conditions are met.

**Exclude do action** allows you to identify one or more actions in your project that will execute, and whose results returned will be removed from the result set generated by the other actions in the binding.

**Note:** Exclude takes precedence over Always.

**Parent topic:**[Rule elements ](../pzn/pzn_rule_elements.md)

**Parent topic:**[Rule elements ](../pzn/pzn_rule_elements.md)

