# Configuring DX Search

End users of a Digital Experience (DX) site expect to see a **Search** box to find relevant information fast. To provide this functionality to users, administrators and engineers can choose from using DX Search or a third party search technology. This topic provides the steps to set up and configure DX Search, HCL DX's own search service.

Note that this document is sufficient to get started with DX search, but supplemental resources are required if you plan to set up DX Remote search.

## Decision tree for setting up DX Search

The following image outlines the steps to set up and configure DX Search based on the environment and search needs.

```mermaid

flowchart TB
  accTitle: Steps in DX Helm installation.
  accDescr: Flowchart showing the mandatory and optional steps in DX Helm installation.
  node_1(["Start"])
  node_2{{"DX Search required?"}}
  node_4{{"Portal cluster?"}}
  node_6(["Start with Default Search Collection"])
  node_7(["Install #amp; Configure Remote Search Service"])
  node_8{{"Process documents such as PDFs?"}}
  node_9(["Create Search Collection"])
  node_10(["Install #amp; Configure Remote Document Conversion Services"])
  node_11(["Delete Default Search Collection and Local Search Service"])
  node_12(["Create Content Sources (Crawlers)"])
  node_13(["Create JCR Collection and Content Source"])
  node_14{{"Web Content Management Authoring Search?"}}
  node_1 --> node_2
  node_1 --> node_14
  node_2 --"No"--> node_11
  node_2 --"Yes"--> node_4
  node_6 -. "Optionally" .-> node_9
  node_4 --"Yes"--> node_7
  node_4 --"No"--> node_6
  node_7 --> node_8
  node_8 --"No"--> node_9
  node_8 --"Yes"--> node_10
  node_10 --> node_11
  node_9 --> node_12
  node_12 --> node_13
  node_14 --"Yes"--> node_13

  style node_2 fill:#BFC6FF, color:#fff
  style node_4 fill:#BFC6FF, color:#fff
  style node_8 fill:#BFC6FF, color:#fff
  style node_14 fill:#BFC6FF, color:#fff

```

## Importance of setting up search

End users expect search functionality on every website that provides the information they need. Search services index the information on the site and allow your users to find the right information quickly.

There is a search component available with HCL DX that is free and well-integrated with the data generated by HCL DX.

If available, you can use a license for a third party search software. Consult the third party provider's documentation on support and integration with HCL DX for further details.

If you opt to not use DX Search, you can remove its configuration and resources. However, still note the disclaimer in [Integrating your own search engine](dx_search_integ_own_search.md) on related to having search available for content authors and editors.

Refer to the following topics for more information:

-   **[Integrating your own search engine](dx_search_integ_own_search.md)**  
Learn how to integrate your own search engine in the DX Search Service.
-   **[Removing the search collection and search service](remove_sc_ss.md)**  
Learn how to delete Portal Search resources such as the search collection or a search service.
-   **[Setting up DX Search](setup_dx_search.md)**  
Learn how to set up DX Search. 
-   **[Portal environments](portal_environments.md)**  
Learn more about standalone and clustered portal environments. 
-   **[Indexing attachments and file resources](index_attachments.md)**  
If you need to search and crawl files in WCM, it is mandatory to install and configure Document Conversion Services.
-   **[Recreating standard crawlers for the search collection](recreate_standard_crawlers.md)**  
After installing and configuring the remote search service, you must create the new search collection and then add the content sources.
-   **[Modifying DX Search](modify_dx_search.md)**  
Learn how to improve the quality of search results and remove language filtering. 
-   **[Faceted search](faceted_search.md)**  
Learn more about faceted search.
-   **[Searching by date and date ranges](search_date_range.md)**  
Learn how to search by date and date ranges. 
-   **[Configuring search in portlets](Configure_search_in_portlet.md)**<br>
In this section, you can configure the search and filter the portlets by defining a portlet property setting.
-   **[Configuring search in a cluster](cfg_search_cluster/index.md)**<br>
HCL DX provides two distinct search capabilities. You can use both types of search capabilities in a clustered environment.
-   **[Configuring your custom portal themes to include the search box](srcconfthmsforsrch.md)**<br>
Enable your portal users to use the Portal Search box and Search portlet in your own custom theme.
-   **[Configuring search in a portal farm](cfg_search_farm/index.md)**<br>
HCL DX provides two distinct search capabilities. You can use both types of search capabilities in a portal farm environment.
-   **[Configuring the default location for search collections](srtcfgdfltlctsrchcllc.md)**  
You can modify the default directory location under which search collections are created on a per search service basis. View some related information.
-   **[Configuring Search Center to search for web content](wcm_dev_search_searchcenter.md)**<br> 
You can use the Search Center to search for web content by adding a web content search collection to the Search Center.
-   **[Configuring search collections for a virtual portal](advp_tsk_cgf_srchcoll.md)**<br>
Configuring JCR search collections for a virtual portal might require additional administration, depending on how you set up the virtual portal.
-   **[Configuring Web Content Manager search options](wcm_config_search.md)**<br>
You can edit the following search options to manage how the search service works with Web Content Manager search forms.
-   **[Search service configuration parameters](search_service_params/index.md)**  
Learn about the portal search service parameters and possible values.
-   **[Configuring the Search Center portlet](cfg_searchcenter/index.md)**  
Get an overview of how you configure the Search Center.
-   **[DX Search Glossary](dx_search_glossary.md)**  
See the definition of terms used in DX Search.











