# CSS styles used by the sample web content template items

The markup that is generated by the sample web content template items is primarily controlled by presentation templates that are stored in the Web Content Templates 3.0 library. These templates rely on the availability of several CSS class definitions in the wp\_oob\_sample\_styles theme module.

Any pages that render the sample items must use a theme profile that includes the `wp_oob_sample_styles` theme module or another module that contains the same CSS class definitions. An example of such a theme profile is the full theme profile that is installed by default.

The `wp_oob_sample_styles` theme module includes a single CSS file that is named oob\_samples.css. This stylesheet is loaded from the path common\_resources\_root/ibm/css/samples. The common\_resources\_root node is specified in the WebSphere® Integrated Solutions Console by the resources.commonResourcesRootURI property of the WP GlobalThemeConfig resource environment provider. The default value for this property is dav:fs-type1/common-resources. This value causes the CSS styles to be loaded from the portal file store with the following path: /common-resources/ibm/css/samples/oob\_samples.css. For more information about setting the common\_resources\_root node, see *Adapting the list of required runtime configuration changes for your theme.*

**Stylesheet note:** The `Rich Text` presentation template that is used as the default presentation for Rich Text content items uses CSS styles that render differently depending on the layout container that contains the Rich Text web content viewer. Different classification CSS classes are assigned to these layout containers. As a result, the font sizes of headings and body elements are reduced when a rich text item is moved from the center column into a more narrow side column.


???+ info "Related information"
    - [Adapting the list of required runtime configuration changes for your theme](../../../../../../../build_sites/themes_skins/developing_theme/dev_op_overview/manual_packaging_themes/themeopt_move_repack_runtime.md)

