# Building the website

Building a website includes creating libraries, pages, and web content. You also create links and navigation to your content, and assign access to different types of users, such as editors and viewers.


-   **[Site Builder](../../sitebuilder/index.md)**  
Site Builder is an application that you can use to create site templates or section templates for use with HCL Digital Experience.
-   **[Content libraries](../building_website/content_libraries/index.md)**  
Content libraries store the assets for your website, including but not limited to pages, content, images, authoring and presentation templates, and workflows.
-   **[Setting up access](site_acl.md)**  
Access controls allow you to assign access to who has the ability to view rendered constant and pages, and who has the ability to edit or administer content, pages, or features.
-   **[Taxonomy](site_taxonomy.md)**  
 Before creating a taxonomy, you should analyze how the taxonomy will be used in your site to determine the best structure for your taxonomy.
-   **[Navigation](../building_website/site_navigation/index.md)**  
Navigation is defined by your page hierarchy and your site area hierarchy. Navigation elements include your page theme, menus, and navigators.
-   **[Elements](../../../manage_content/wcm_authoring/authoring_portlet/content_management_artifacts/elements/index.md)**  
Create a website by, building templates, and specifying other key components of the system. When these items are in place, you can begin adding elements to your templates and use them to create content items.
-   **[Tags](../../../manage_content/wcm_authoring/authoring_portlet/content_management_artifacts/tags/index.md)**  
Tags are used in your markup to reference content that is stored or generated by elements, or to display metadata from different items.
-   **[Setting up search for site visitors](site_search_forms.md)**  
Learn about the initial considerations for setting up search for site visitors before you begin configuring and administering search on your website.
-   **[Taxonomies, Categories, and keywords](../../../manage_content/wcm_development/wcm_dev_profiling_taxonomy_planning.md)**  
The combination of taxonomy and categories enables control what displays in menus.
-   **[How to store translated text in a content item or site area](../../../manage_content/wcm_development/wcm_dev_storing_translated_text.md)**  
Translated text can be stored in a content item or site area. The translated text can then be referenced in web content tags, or as localized text in web content authoring portlet forms.
-   **[Hiding content](epc_page_hide_content.md)**  
You can hide portlets and widgets on a page so they are present but not visible in the page layout.
-   **[Static content](../building_website/static_content/index.md)**  
Static content is part of every website. In a portal site, static content can be rendered as static page or it can be added to specific content areas on a page.
-   **[Dynamic content](site_dynamic_content.md)**  
Dynamic content is generated when a page is rendered and is based on a set of predefined criteria such as the current user, the metadata of the current page. It allows you to deliver content specifically customized for the current user, or to deliver content customized for a campaign or product in your organization.
-   **[Content as a Service pages](../../../manage_content/wcm_delivery/content_as_a_service/cntnt_serv_pgs.md)**  
Starting with version 8.5 CF05, HCL Digital Experience introduces the concept of Content as a Service pages. The Content as a Service pages can be used to render content that is managed by your HCL Web Content Manager in different data formats.
-   **[URLs](site_urls.md)**  
Portal URLs do not look like plain HTTP server URLs over a simple file system. Portal URLs have a complex structure and include a large compressed and encoded XML Navigation State document. The stream of random characters in a Portal URL is the Navigation State document. Full Portal function depends on correctly maintaining this Navigation State document during all the operations a user might do in Portal. Forcing Portal URLs to look like plain HTTP server URLs over a simple file system structure cripples the function of HCL Portal.


