---
id: site_dynamic_content
title: Dynamic content
---


Dynamic content is generated when a page is rendered and is based on a set of predefined criteria such as the current user, the metadata of the current page. It allows you to deliver content specifically customized for the current user, or to deliver content customized for a campaign or product in your organization.

## Dynamic web content

Web content can be generated at render-time using dynamic element types:

-   **Menus**

    A menu displays metadata and content from content items that match the search criteria of the menu element. The search criteria of a menu can include matching site areas, authoring templates, categories, and keywords.

-   **Personalization element**

    A personalization element stores a reference to a personalization rule or content spot generated by Portal Personalization. To use a personalization element you must create a personalization component.

-   **User name element**

    This element will display different content for authenticated or anonymous users.


## Targeted content and Portal Personalization

Personalization can recognize a specific user based on a profile or can determine characteristics of a user based on previous purchases, products or pages viewed, and so forth. Personalization then selects content that is appropriate for that profile. If a person has a high salary range, Personalization can be configured to retrieve information about a commercial website premium product. If an individual belongs to a particular geographic region, content specific to that region may be targeted to the individual. The page is assembled with the proper personalized information, and the user sees her personalized page.

Targeted content provides you with a way to deliver multiple pieces of content to different audiences. Targeted content matches the best content with the most appropriate group by using segments. Segments help you split your audience into meaningful groups with different interests or characteristics.

A targeted spot displays different content to different segments. You can create a target spot by defining content that is targeted to specific segments:

-   Add content items to your content spot in a web content viewer.

-   Add segments to each content item to display your content to the correct audience. Segments help you define your target audience. For example, you can define the audience by users, device class, or other attributes.

