# XML configuration reference

Learn more about XML input structure, XML tags for portal resources, attributes for special purposes such as locale data, object IDs, and more. Also find information about action attributes that determine the type of processing that the XML configuration reference applies to the portal resource. There are syntax restrictions that you need to consider as well as information about how to determine the object IDs for portal resources.

-   **[XML input script file structure](../admin-system/adxmlref_input_structure.md)**  
When you use the XML configuration interface command line client, the XML script you use specifies the root element, the XML schema, the portal resources, and actions to be performed.
-   **[Types of portal resources](../admin-system/adxmlref_resrc_types.md)**  
The portal resources are represented by the following XML tags.
-   **[Syntactic restrictions on the input syntax](../admin-system/adxmlref_syntax_restrct.md)**  
There are certain restrictions on the allowed values for the action attribute.
-   **[Object IDs in XML scripts](../admin-system/adxmlref_objct_ids.md)**  
All resources in HCL Portal, except for the resources portal and the settings, have an object ID that uniquely identifies them in the portal. That ID is generated by the portal when the resource is created. These object IDs are represented by the objectid attributes in an XML export.
-   **[Replacement variables in XML configuration interface script files](../admin-system/adxmlref_rplcmt_variables.md)**  
XML script files that were created by an XML configuration interface export or that can be imported by the XML configuration interface can contain URLs to portal files. These URLs reference files that are in HCL Portal server directories. Depending on the installation directory of your HCL Digital Experience installation, these file locations can differ. You can avoid the dependency on the file location by using variables.
-   **[Exporting sets of resources](../admin-system/adxmlref_exp_sets.md)**  
You can specify more than one resource with an export action in the same request and thus generate an export response file that contains a selected group of resources, for example several portlets and pages.
-   **[Mandatory and optional attributes](../admin-system/adxmlref_mandopt_attrbt.md)**  
Depending on the action that you perform by using the XML configuration interface, some attributes can be mandatory or optional.
-   **[Page layout modifications](../admin-system/adxmlref_page_layout_mod.md)**  
When you use an XML script to update an existing page with a new layout, you create or update child elements of type component for the content-node element of the page. Normally you use the XML script to define a complete new layout of the page rather than combine the existing layout with your new definitions. In such cases the XML configuration interface applies special processing.
-   **[Marking pages as hidden under the content root](../admin-system/adxmlref_hide_page.md)**  
By default, pages that you create under the content root display in the main menu. If you do not want a page that you create to appear in the main menu, you can hide the page.
-   **[Importing WAR files](../admin-system/adxmlref_import_war.md)**  
To create new portlet applications, you need additional resources, the WAR files.
-   **[Importing static page content from archive or compressed files](../admin-system/adxmlref_imp_static_page.md)**  
You can import the content of static pages from an external archive or compressed file by using the XML configuration interface.
-   **[Viewing updates and changes made with the XML configuration interface](../admin-system/adxmlref_view_upd.md)**  
For your users to be able to view updates that you made by using the XML configuration interface, they might have to log out and log back in again, or you might have to restart the portal. This depends on the type of update that you made.
-   **[Transactionality](../admin-system/adxmlref_xaction.md)**  
When you use XML scripts to create, update or delete resources, the changes in the portal database are grouped into transactions. All changes that are part of one transaction are either executed completely or not at all. The XML configuration has two different levels of grouping database updates into transactions.
-   **[Error recovery](../admin-system/adxmlref_errecovr.md)**  
If errors occur during the processing of an XML script, the XML result file contains an error message. After fixing the cause of the error, you have two options to continue.
-   **[Hints and tips for using the portal XML configuration interface](../admin-system/adxmlref_hint_tip.md)**  
In an example configuration, you might have two HCL Digital Experience environments that are both configured for security with an LDAP server. However, the two LDAP servers have different directory structures.
-   **[Sample XML configuration files](../admin-system/admxmsmp.md)**  
Sample files are provided for your reference to help illustrate how to use XML configuration for different portal configuration purposes.

**Parent topic:**[The XML configuration interface](../admin-system/admxmlai.md)

**Related information**  


[Scheduling scope synchronization](../wcm/wcm_tagrate_syncscope_sched.md)

[Staging to production list](../deploy/dep_stage_check.md)

[Creating the initial release](../deploy/dep_cir.md)

[Exporting and transferring parts of a portal configuration](../admin-system/adxmltsk_xfer_partl_cfg.md)

[Managing your cluster](../admin-system/manage_clus.md)

