# Capacity planning for multilingual sites

It is important to consider the additional load that is placed on the authoring server in comparison with single language websites.

The workload that is imposed by each additional language can be considered equivalent to the workload imposed by an extra set of authoring users. So if you have 50 users that support a single language website, then adding four extra languages is equivalent to having 250 users creating and publishing individual content items.

-   When synchronized publishing is required, enabling project integration is recommended as this strategy greatly reduces the load that is generated by this function.
-   To further reduce the load that the multilingual extensions generate, the following settings can be modified in each configuration file, with higher values reducing the load:

    -   **Localize / Regionalize Workflow Synchronization Settings**

        -   **`localize.processingDelay`**

            Specifies the delay in milliseconds between processing each item. Defaults to 100 milliseconds.

        -   **`regionalize.processingDelay`**

            Specifies the delay in milliseconds between processing each item. Defaults to 100 milliseconds.

    -   **SyncPublish Workflow Synchronization Settings**

        This is required only for the legacy synchronized publishing implementation where project publishing synchronization is not used.

        -   **`syncPublish.processingDelay`**

            Specifies the delay in milliseconds between processing each item. Defaults to 2000 milliseconds.

        -   **`syncPublish.rescheduleInterval`**

            Specifies the interval in seconds to reschedule the action if documents are outstanding. Defaults to 300 seconds.

    -   **SyncExpire Workflow Synchronization Settings**

        -   **`syncExpire.processingDelay`**

            Specifies the delay in milliseconds between processing each item. Defaults to 2000 milliseconds.

        -   **`syncExpire.rescheduleInterval`**

            Specifies the interval in seconds to reschedule the action if documents are outstanding. Defaults to 300 seconds.

    -   **SyncDelete Workflow Synchronization Settings**

        -   **`syncDelete.processingDelay`**

            Specifies the delay in milliseconds between processing each item. Defaults to 5000 milliseconds.

## HCLSoftware U learning materials

For an introduction and a demo on how to manage multilingual sites as a business user, go to [Multilingual for Business Users](https://hclsoftwareu.hcltechsw.com/component/axs/?view=sso_config&id=3&forward=https%3A%2F%2Fhclsoftwareu.hcltechsw.com%2Fcourses%2Flesson%2F%3Fid%3D2792){target="_blank"}. You can try it out using the [Multilingual Lab for Business Users](https://hclsoftwareu.hcltechsw.com/images/Lc4sMQCcN5uxXmL13gSlsxClNTU3Mjc3NTc4MTc2/DS_Academy/DX/Business_User/HDX-BU-200_Multilingual_Lab.pdf){target="_blank"} and corresponding [Multilingual Lab Resources](https://hclsoftwareu.hcltechsw.com/images/Lc4sMQCcN5uxXmL13gSlsxClNTU3Mjc3NTc4MTc2/DS_Academy/DX/Business_User/HDX-BU-200_Multilingual_Lab_Resources.zip).

To learn more about multilingual deployment options, go to [Multilingual for Administrators](https://hclsoftwareu.hcltechsw.com/component/axs/?view=sso_config&id=3&forward=https%3A%2F%2Fhclsoftwareu.hcltechsw.com%2Fcourses%2Flesson%2F%3Fid%3D3364){target="_blank"}. In this course, you will learn about language support and selection, page translation, search, and the built-in multilingual solution for web content. You will also learn how to manage the locale URL, plan site capacity, and optimize performance. You can try it out using the [Multilingual Lab for Administrators](https://hclsoftwareu.hcltechsw.com/component/axs/?view=sso_config&id=3&forward=https%3A%2F%2Fhclsoftwareu.hcltechsw.com%2Fcourses%2Flesson%2F%3Fid%3D3364){target="_blank"}.
