# Connections between portlets

The Portlet Wiring Tool allows you to configure connections, or wires, between cooperative portlets. Cooperative portlets can exchange information, or properties, with each other through the property broker. Properties are exchanged either by prompting the user with a Click-To-Action menu or automatically using pre-configured wires. As a result, portlets on the page can react in an integrated and unified manner to the user's actions.

Setting up a wire between portlets allows the user's transfer selection choices to be saved. When specific interactions are performed, the wire can be used to automatically transfer properties to target portlets without displaying the pop-up menu prompting the user for more information. The Portlet Wiring Tool allows you to view the properties that portlets on the page can send or receive. If a match is available between two portlets, you can create a wire between the two portlets. Existing wires may also be deleted using the tool.

The Portlet Wiring Tool also provides the functionality to implement cross-page portlet communication. Cross-page wires allow portlets to exchange properties across pages. Before creating a cross-page wire, the target page must have receiving actions defined as global on its portlets. Setting an action as global will also make that action available to Click-To-Action menus. To set an action as global, navigate to the target page and select **Edit Page Layout** from the drop-down menu on the title bar. Then select the **Wires** tab and click **Manage Actions**. This will bring up a listing of the portlets on a page and their corresponding receiving actions.

As an alternative to the Portlet Wiring Tool, wires can also be created interactively in the portlet. Depending on the browser, users with sufficient permissions can create wires by holding either the **CTRL** or **ALT** keys and clicking an icon or hotspot in the portlet that is already associated with a Click-To-Action function. A dialog is displayed that allows the user to create a wire to other portlets on the page.

The wiring tool allows wires to be created in situations which are not handled by the interactive approach. For example, the tool does not require the existence of Click-To-Action menus to initiate wire creation It can be used to create multiple wires from a single source property \(using the interactive approach, a single source can be wired to a single target or all targets, not an arbitrary subset\). Wire creation or deletion is subject to the access control checks as described later.

In order to view the tool itself, users must possess at least "User" role permissions on the page and the portlet. Further access checks are performed before allowing the user to view, create, or delete wires between portlets. The user must possess at least "User" role permissions on a page and the wired portlets on it to be able to view wires for the page. Users may also be able to create or delete personal wires, which affect their view of the page, or create or delete public wires, which affect all users' view of the page. Users must possess at least "Privileged User" role permissions on the page and "User" permissions on the portlets to be able to create or delete personal wires, while at least "Editor" role permissions are required on the page and "User" permissions on the portlets to be able to create or delete public wires.


