# How to work with elements


Each content item that you create contains at least one element type. The elements that are stored in a content item are determined by the authoring template that is selected when you created the content item. Depending on the authoring template, and your level of access, you might also be able to manage the elements in a content item.

-   **[Creating an authoring tools element](wcm_dev_elements_authoring-tools_using.md)**  
The authoring tool element is used to add authoring portlet functions to web pages. When you create an authoring tool element, you need to define the layout of the authoring tool and any required actions, and select parameters for each action layout as required.
-   **[Creating a component reference element](wcm_dev_elements_comp-reference_using.md)**  
You use a component reference element to store a reference to a component. To create a component reference element, you can either add a component reference element to an authoring template, site area, or content item, or create a component reference component.
-   **[Creating a date and time element](wcm_dev_elements_date-time_using.md)**  
You use a date and time element to store a date or time to be displayed on a web page. To create a date and time element, you can either add a date and time element to an authoring template, site area, or content item, or create a date and time component.
-   **[Using a file resource element](wcm_dev_elements_fileresource_using.md)**  
You use a file resource element to store a file that can later be referenced on a web page. To create a file resource element, you can either add a file resource element to an authoring template, site area, or content item, or create a file resource component.
-   **[Using an HTML element](wcm_dev_elements_html_using.md)**  
You use an HTML element to store a section of HTML. To create an HTML element, you can either add an HTML element to an authoring template, site area, or content item, or create an HTML component.
-   **[Using an image element](wcm_dev_elements_image_using.md)**  
You use an image element to store an image file that can later be referenced on a web page. To create an image element, you can either add an image element to an authoring template, site area, or content item, or create an image component.
-   **[Using a JSP element](wcm_dev_elements_jsp_using.md)**  
You use a JSP element to store a path to a JSP. When rendered within a presentation template or element design, a request to a JSP is generated and processed.
-   **[Using a link element](wcm_dev_elements_link_using.md)**  
A link element stores a link to a web content item, or to external content such as a web page.
-   **[List presentation uses](wcm_dev_listpres.md)**  
A list presentation stores a reusable presentation for navigator, menu, personalization, and search components. If the presentation of a navigator, menu, personalization, or search component is used in more than one component design, then you store that presentation in a list presentation.
-   **[Using a menu element](wcm_dev_elements_menu_using.md)**  
To create a menu element you must specify the criteria to search content items with, and then create a layout for the metadata or content to be displayed in the menu element.
-   **[Using a navigator element](wcm_dev_elements_navigator_options.md)**  
Create a navigator element to display a list of links based on a section of the site framework of a site.
-   **[Using a number element](wcm_dev_elements_number_using.md)**  
You use a number element to store a numerical value.
-   **[Using an option selection element](wcm_dev_elements_option-selection_add_template.md)**  
An option selection element can be added only to an authoring template. You create a predefined set of values for content creators to select from when you create a content item or site area.
-   **[Using a page navigation element](wcm_dev_elements_page-navigation_using.md)**  
A page navigation element provides navigation controls that are used to browse through a set of results that are generated by menus, navigators, personalization, and search elements.
-   **[Using a Personalization element](wcm_dev_elements_pzn_using.md)**  
A Personalization element stores a reference to a rule or content spot.
-   **[Using a rich text element](wcm_dev_elements_rich-text_using.md)**  
You use a rich text element to provide users with a rich text editor that can be used to author a section of HTML. To create a rich text element, you can either add a rich text element to an authoring template, site area, or content item, or create a rich text component.
-   **[How to use a search element](wcm_dev_search_form.md)**  
A search element is used to display the results of a search query. A search element cannot be used in isolation, but must be used together with an HTML element that is used to define the search query form.
-   **[Using a short text element](wcm_dev_elements_short-text_using.md)**  
A short text element is used to store small amounts of fixed-length text where the length is 250 bytes or less. Unlike the other text elements, short text elements can also be used as a search parameter in a Personalization rule. To create a short text element, you can either add a short text element to an authoring template, site area, or content item, or create a short text component.
-   **[Using a style sheet element](wcm_dev_elements_style-sheet_using.md)**  
You store a style sheet file in a style sheet element. You can use a style sheet element only by creating a style sheet component. You cannot add a style sheet element to authoring templates, site areas, or content items.
-   **[Using a taxonomy element](wcm_dev_elements_taxonomy_using.md)**  
You use a taxonomy element to display a list of categories from a taxonomy.
-   **[Using a text element](wcm_dev_elements_text_using.md)**  
You use a text element to store a short section of text. To create a text element, you can either add a text element to an authoring template, site area, or content item, or create a text component.
-   **[Using a user name element](wcm_dev_elements_username.md)**  
A user name element displays the name of the current user in a presentation template, component design, or element design. You can use a user name element only by creating a user name component. You cannot add a user name element to authoring templates, site areas, or content items.
-   **[Using a user selection element](wcm_dev_elements_user-selection_using.md)**  
You use a user selection element to store a list of users and groups.
-   **[Adding elements to an item](wcm_dev_elements_adding.md)**  
You add elements to site areas, content items, page items, and authoring templates to store web content specific to those items.

**Related information**  


[Adding elements to an item](wcm_dev_elements_adding_sa.md)

[Adding elements to an item](wcm_dev_elements_adding_content.md)

[Adding elements to an item](wcm_dev_auth-temp_addelements.md)

[Creating components](wcm_dev_component_creating.md)

