# HCL Digital Experience Overview

The platform to blend content, applications, and business processes for delivering the best experience every time. HCL Digital Experience Manager empowers you to create, manage and deliver engaging omnichannel HCL Digital Experiences to virtually all audiences with responsive content, targeted offers, seamlessly integrated applications, and consistent branding across channels (web, mobile, and hybrid mobile/web applications, and more).

It provides you the flexibility to scale when you need to with the deployment model (private cloud, public cloud, on prem, etc.) and platform that works best for your business now, and the future. With its Cloud Native support, using Docker provides an open standard for packaging and distributing containerized applications – allowing installation, and subsequent updates and upgrades to be done in minutes – not hours or days. And with Kubernetes support, it enables the platform to be updated, scaled and self-healed automatically, dramatically reducing TCO.

HCL DX is the unifying platform that allows Freedom Mortgage to deliver personalized solutions across the business, from intranet to consumer experiences. DXM is a proven platform – purpose built and trusted by enterprises worldwide – for the demanding needs of an organization’s business-critical digital experiences, when organizations need a platform that is secure, always available, and can scale to meet the needs of the business. By “business-critical” we mean any digital experience that must always be available, secure and perform to the scale of the business.

Our clients trust HCL DX for a variety of business-critical experiences — Prudential for online insurance customer self-service, the State of Ohio for citizen services for a population of over 11M people (that recently handled a 3000% increase in traffic due to questions about Covid-19), and Caterpillar for worldwide dealer inventory support for capital intensive heavy equipment.

HCL DXM makes it faster and easier than ever to deploy business critical digital experiences. New capabilities including hybrid cloud deployment alternatives, intuitive content management and creation tools and faster application deployment. It is designed to scale, be flexible, support authentication for security and personalization, and ease the integration of multiple and varied applications.
