# Disclaimers
This report is subject to the [HCL Terms of Use](https://www.hcl.com/terms-of-use){:target="_blank"} and the following disclaimers:

The information contained in this report is provided for informational purposes only. While efforts were made to verify the completeness and accuracy of the information contained in this publication, it is provided AS IS without warranty of any kind, express or implied, including but not limited to the implied warranties of merchantability, non-infringement, and fitness for a particular purpose. In addition, this information is based on HCL’s current product plans and strategy, which are subject to change by HCL without notice. HCL shall not be responsible for any direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or other damages arising out of the use of, or otherwise related to, this report or any other materials. Nothing contained in this publication is intended to, nor shall have the effect of, creating any warranties or representations from HCL or its suppliers or licensors, or altering the terms and conditions of the applicable license agreement governing the use of HCL software.

References in this report to HCL products, programs, or services do not imply that they will be available in all countries in which HCL operates. Product release dates and/or capabilities referenced in this presentation may change at any time at HCL’s sole discretion based on market opportunities or other factors, and are not intended to be a commitment to future product or feature availability in any way. The underlying database used to support these reports is refreshed on a weekly basis. Discrepancies found between reports generated using this web tool and other HCL documentation sources may or may not be attributed to different publish and refresh cycles for this tool and other sources. Nothing contained in this report is intended to, nor shall have the effect of, stating or implying that any activities undertaken by you will result in any specific sales, revenue growth, savings or other results. You assume sole responsibility for any results you obtain or decisions you make as a result of this report.

Notwithstanding the [HCL Terms of Use](https://www.hcl.com/terms-of-use){:target="_blank"}, users of this site are permitted to copy and save the reports generated from this tool for such users own internal business purpose. No other use shall be permitted.

